Here is the next problem we have when it
comes to styling, which is that well.
A lot of us like preprocessors because
they make our lives a lot easier when it
comes to shared utility,
shared variables, and that kind of stuff.
So the question is,
how do we use something like sass,
basically the preprocessor
of choice these days?
So let's go ahead and do that.
So the first thing first is to understand
is that nuxt does not come with sass
pre-installed as a bundle.
So in other words, it needs the ability
to be able to read sass files correctly.
And what we're gonna do is gonna
run npm install --save-dev,
cuz this is mainly only for
the dev environment, right?
Pre-processes don't get
passed up to production.
And so we wanna install sass,
and sass-loader, and
currently the docs recommending @10.
But for those watching this in the future,
just check the nuxt ducs,
if you want official check on
what you should be installing.
But basically, it's saying, hey, install
my pre-processor sass, install the loader,
again we're pinning it at specifically
at version 10 at the moment.
In the future,
that might just completely get eliminated.
Okay, once that's install, you'll know
you were successful, because why?
Because your git log would tell you,
hey, look at this, I see sass and
sass-loader in my dev dependencies.
Great, okay, so
now I say can we actually use it?
Well, how do we use it?
Inside of here, so let's go to app.view,
let's say we wanna actually say we have a
color that we wanna describe for the text.
Well, I'm just gonna ahead and
strip the module right now,
I just take sort of revert things back to
CSS to keep things a little bit simpler.
And let's say for the list and the title,
we wanna have this class equals,
let's call this heading, and
we wanna have this color red, right?
And so normally, what you do is
you'd have a color that's red,
you can have heading here,
that's also color red, right?
And that should work if we go back to our
app or let me start it back up, boom.
Then, if I max screen this, while it's
loading let's rearrange it a little bit,
so it's a little bit easier to follow.
All right, so interesting,
I'm missing a semicolon,
let's go right back to it,
where did it get messed up?
Yes, clearly, I missed it here,
you won't hear about that one
cuz there's only one property.
But now when we refresh, hey,
there we go and we fetch the data,
we'll see everything's right.
That works, okay.
So if you're a little more forward
thinking, you're thinking, well,
I know about variables, so
CSS variables, so I can say yes,
--text-color: red, I can do this.
And then from here, we can basically say
var (--text-color) and var (--text-color).
And to prove that this works cuz there
will be no visual difference between
the two unless I change this,
will make this green instead, right?
And then look,
everything's green, looks nice.
But pre-processors can help us
especially with sass, especially,
sometimes we are defining things that
are maybe, we wanna use maybe or for
example, if you're using something that
doesn't have, you're supporting a browser
version that doesn't have CSS variables,
this won't work.
So in this case, all you got to do is you
added language attribute, and for me,
I prefer a CSS over sass.
But same for those who haven't used it,
it's basically the same thing.
Some slight syntactical differences,
but they're in the same umbrella.
And then we could then just go well,
we're gonna say, $textColor.
And this time, again, just to show that
something's changing, we'll say blue.
And what's nice is, I can then do
$textColor like this, save, and so
this syntax, to be very clear, this is
sass specific, this is not CSS spec.
And then we refresh over here.
It didn't feed it in.
Let's check something real quick.
TextColor, that's right,
it needs to interpolate
the thing, I forgot, that's a whole thing.
Let's Google the syntax for
that real quick.
New window, please.
Sass interpolation variable names,
see, very common like tossing came up.
[LAUGH] Because right now, what's
happening to explain this real quick for
those having you sass, this text color is
actually reading this as a literal string,
it is not trying to do any
sort of compilation on it.
So what we need to do if I can't remember,
yeah, it's this syntax.
I think it should be this, is that it?
I wanna say let's try this real quick,
like this yeah,
I already see some color syntax
highlighting, this looks better already.
There we go much better.
So as you can see,
now you've basically paired
a preprocessor along with the modern one.
And then it's helpful
because if things break,
you have some progressive degradation.
But now that we've done this though,
the thing you're probably thinking
next is that, okay, this is nice for
my components, but
I'm gonna have stuff that's shared.
How are we gonna do that?
Well, this is where the assets folder
finally comes into play, because assets
are things that we want the compiler or
the build tools to actually take a run at.
So we're gonna create an assets folder.
And so this folder should be an app
actually, I extend credit in the root.
So you can see, here is our assets.
And then typically, what I see on most
projects is there is gonna be a folder for
styles, and then we can create
a file called main.scss.
And so inside of here for
example, we can go ahead and
just take out this color blue,
and let's just drop it in here.
And let's give our html
a background colour, shall we?
What's the fun color we can do, let's see.
Got to love the autocomplete
on vs code for the colors.
Let's pick something fun,
not green, not red.
Let's go with papayawhip, that sounds fun.
Let's do the papayawhip, that should
be hopefully enough contrast and
be readable to you, I like it.
All right, so if we save right now though,
we're gonna get some issues though,
because why?
Well, first of all,
text color doesn't exist, right?
You haven't imported it,
so how does that work?
Well, it's actually pretty easy,
all we got to do is we go @import.
And then we actually just refer to
the actual path of where it is.
So since app.view is at the root,
we can basically say
'./assets/styles/main.scss'.
And in a colon oops,
semicolon actually to be clear.
All right, and look at that.
Our sass styles are appearing and
it looks good.
And so this strategy can basically be
used as you break your global size up
into partials and stuff.
Again, we're not this is
not a CSS workshop so
I'm gonna let you all dive
into that as it sees fit.
But you have seen at least the basics of
how to get your own sass file into now,
the compilation step, everything was good,
you know how to import it.
Now, the next step we're gonna do with
this is we're gonna have you install
an actual design like system.
And so the one we're going to use if
you've never used it before is called
Bulma.
And I actually, I would be curious to find
out if it was named after the Dragon Ball,
Bulma, but that'd be cool if it was,
I think it is.
Excellent.
And actually, now I look at the logo that
kind of does look like a hair color,
so for any Dragon Ball fans out there.
So Bulma basically is an open-source CSS
framework, think bootstrap, think material
design, but I like to use Bulma because
everyone uses material design and
everyone uses bootstrap.
So something a little bit different and
I just got some nice conventions
that I do enjoy using.
So gow does this work?
Well, we're gonna,
npm install bulma, right?
And so what that will do is once again we
can see, take, that's why it didn't work.
So okay, this is where I
got to love terminal hints.
If you'll notice, normally when
I make a change to something,
like if I make a change here and I save
it, if you'll notice that I get this like
exclamation mark that tells me
something's changed on your branch.
And the where I get this from just so that
people can have this is something called I
wanna say, it's rocket ship terminal.
I mess this up every time it's starship,
I don't know.
I tell you I've streamed this thing
multiple times, and I mess it up, but
it's starship.
And so basically, it's a minimal prompt,
and so that's why you see
my prompt the way it is.
It basically tells me the project,
it doesn't know what branch I'm on.
But it tells me flags when something's
changed on my git branch, and
then it does things like
node environments and stuff.
But anyways, this is nice because okay,
let me revert this real quick.
I just installed, Bulma,
but nothing has changed and
that should be a red flag immediately
because what just happened?
Well, what just happened is I'm actually
in the root directory and my package.json
is up in app, so I'm gonna switch over
to app, run npm, install Bulma again.
And this time,
you'll see that it's flagged me.
Yes, there is a change.
And what's the change?
Yes, here we go.
We see Bulma in our dependencies, and
we see it in our package-lock, great.
All right, so now that we have
that the question is well,
how the heck do we
actually import the thing?
Well, believe it or not,
the strategy is actually very
similar to what we just have here.
What we're gonna do is we're
actually gonna say import,
and then we're actually gonna
go into the node_modules folder.
And so just explore it a little bit.
I know mostly,
we tend to avoid this, but just for
the sake of teaching you
what's going on here.
You can actually open up the package
directly and if you actually look,
Bulma is actually a pretty
quaint little package,
it's just a folder with a sass file.
So what can we do?
Well, we can just grab that
Bulma sass file and import it.
And so when you talk to customization,
Bulma lets you then dive in,
grab partials and stuff.
Once again, not a CSS workshop but
gives you just enough taste,
it could be dangerous with it.
And now, just to show you that this works,
I'm gonna add because I know that this is
gonna work, I'm gonna add a title,
CSS attribute to this one.
So now, if I refresh it, you already see
some of the stuff is starting to change,
and so
the title is already looking better.
In fact, the typography already
starting to look a little bit better.
And so one thing I'm gonna do just to make
this look even a little bit better is let
me go ahead and wrap this thing in a div,
div, and the div.
I'm gonna add for this one I'm
just gonna call this one I think
it's containers the one I'm looking for
I meant sections save.
That's much better.
Okay, I wanted to see the drop here,
and so
we're already starting to apply some basic
layout and stuff, and so there you go.
Now, you have Bulma working, and you
can basically poke through the docs and
we're gonna use this as
the template going forward.
So if you see me starting to add class,
I will try to make sure to call it out
that like these are Bulma classes.
So that way,
I'm not writing raw CSS because again,
we're here to learn about nuxt, not CSS.
And y'all can dive into that on your own.